---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Ability to "Be Helped"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-09-12
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Questions
  - Stack Overflow
---

## Introduction
Eric Raymond’s guide on “How to ask questions the smart way” provides an excellent introduction on how to troubleshoot your problems by interacting with the open source community. It covers a wide variety of topics that are useful to us as software engineers, as we will often need to seek help to overcome bugs and issues. The guide provides insight into the steps involved in querying a open source community, and some good precepts to follow if one is to get an answer quickly and easily.

## A Quick Summary
My quick summary of the guide is as follows: First perform your own research ahead of time and pick an appropriate forum, then make it easy to reply by providing a clear and concise summary of your problem, providing only important information, and being explicit about symptoms of the problem. As a general rule, be courteous and make sure your message is grammatically correct, spelled correctly, and accessible. A final rule to keep in mind, is ask questions that are focused (open ended questions are open ended time sinks) but leave room for the correct answer to be given (yes or no questions are bad). Just think about what kind of question you would be willing to answer, make it easy for people to help you!

## What is Stack Overflow?
Stack Overflow is an internet forum for programming where users can ask questions and receive answers from the community, it is very commonly referenced by programmers of all proficiency levels whenever they encounter a problem. This also means it is an excellent place to see “smart questions” being asked, and also see questions asked “the not smart way” which often leads to a lack of responses (or lack of quality).

## A Stack Overflow Question | Asked the "Smart" Way
This stack overflow question here: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57850869/how-to-create-a-list-of-dictionaries-from-a-dictionary-with-lists-of-different-l exhibits many of the positive guidelines presented by Mr. Raymond. The asker has nicely presented code blocks, clearly separating: their written code, input, desired output, and actual output, very clean and easy to read (albeit simple). The question is very straight forward, and definitely is not a “open ended time sink”, the user provides all the important information and makes it very easy for people to reply. They do suggest what they think the problem is (different list lengths), this could be interpreted as a negative as you should provide symptoms not your thoughts, but it also could be construed as a positive attempt at solving your own problem, and doing some legwork before asking for help. They have recieived numerous thorough responses as they have made it easy to answer their question, by utilizing many of Mr. Raymond's techniques.

## A Stack Overflow Question | Asked the "Not Smart" Way
My example of a question asked the “not smart way” comes from this post here: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57884474/my-app-crashes-because-of-the-heightconstraints-i-dont-know-how-to-fix-it . The title itself is a turnoff as it says “My app crashes because of the height constraints I don’t know how to fix it”, this goes against a number of things suggested by Mr. Raymond, suggesting a “open ended time sink” and not being precise about the problem. As we get further into the post, we can see that the user posted their uncommented block of code, not specifically denoting which line they are having trouble with, this puts more work on the community that is seeking to help them, and decreasing the chances of getting a response.  The grammar and writing style of the post is also rather bad as it is just 1 long run on sentence, ending in an ellipses indicating the user has given up, is frustrated, or impatiently waiting for a response. If I was knowledgeable enough to help them on this topic, I would be unlikely to do so because of the low amount of effort put into the post, and how much time I would need to put in as the responder due to the inadequate information.

## Conclusion
In Conclusion, this guide from Mr. Raymond has helped me examine the way I ask questions when seeking help, and provided a good set of guidelines that I will try my best to follow in the future. As a general rule I will provide all necessary information, in a well formatted and precise manner, and make it easy for other to help me!
